Warren Buffett once said that monopolies
and oligopolies are the best investments.
Now monopolies are companies with absolutely no competition.
Okay, no competition.
So usually, they usually don't cut prices.
For example, Microsoft had a near monopoly
with Microsoft Windows for many many years.
As such they barely cut the pricing point on Windows
for about two decades or so.
Now oligopolies are similar to monopolies.
But there are a few powerful competitors in the sector.
Examples of near oligopolies include Google with Android
in the smartphone market.
Okay, and of course Apple, as well.
And I mention monopolies and oligopolies in this section
as we really need to be aware of government scrutiny as well
on companies that have a large market share
or are very very powerful.
You know for example, the EU has been scrutinizing Google
and Microsoft for many years
given the former's dominance in search
and the later's previously dominant
in the operating system market.
And the role of government in free market societies
is to ensure that markets stay competitive
as competition helps the consumer.
And although we need to look to invest in companies
with high barriers to entry,
meaning little competition,
we also need to be aware of government policies
when it comes to market power.
Okay and the role of governance in business
is partially to make markets more fair.
And I mention this because
when considering investing in companies,
we gotta understand
if companies that we are investing in
can maintain their pricing power in the long run.